In Python, there are numerous data types for numeric values, but during the basic training, we're
going to concentrate on the two most important ones, which, as we have already seen, are integers
and floats.
The difference between them is that floats include decimal values.
So if I needed to handle values like ages, numbers of people or number of days or positions in a list,
I would use integers if my values are going to be, for example, temperatures, prices, weights,
measures, I'm going to need values that support decimal places and they would be floats.
Let's go to PI, try to see how the numbers behave in code.
And so here we are in Pi Chum, where I created a new file called Integers Underscore float dot p and
you can do the same.
I did it inside the data folder and we're going to close the column to start demonstrating some of the
work here.
So first, we going to create a new variable that I'm going to call my underscore number and my number.
I'm going to declare it to have a value of one initially.
And as you can see, it supports it perfectly.
As we've done with the strings.
We can store integers in the variables.
And if I now want to print my number, notice this help window that Pi charm gives us.
When you start to write the name of a variable or a function, some options will pop up.
Since I just created my number, it is already in the options list.
It has a V symbol that means variable.
Pressing the tab key or the entity adds it automatically without having to type it all the time.
So taking advantage of that really speeds it up.
So unless we run this code, we're going to run and choose our new window.
And here it says one because I asked to print the variable, my number, whose value is one.
So, so far, so easy.
And now I'm going to show you something additional.
There is a function called type that lets you know what type of data we are talking about when we refer
to a particular data or variable.
In this case, the variable, my number.
So if I want to print this, so we're going to insert all this in brackets and we're going to put print
it so that it shows us not only the variable, my number, but also the type of data that my number
is.
It tells us that one it is and I m t perfect.
This is information that is going to be very important for what follows.
So let's move on.
I want to show you that also, my number can be composed not only by a number, but by an operation.
For example, one plus three, if I run this now, it will tell me that my number is equal to four and
it is still an integer because four is an integer.
I can also print operations done with variables.
For example.
Brent.
My number, plus my number.
This is what I'm going to print.
We execute and it prints an eight.
What it did was to do.
In addition, remember that we used the plus inside the print to concatenate strings.
But this is not a string.
Neither of them are in integers.
So what the plus does this time is add.
So what was printed is an eight and it keeps telling me that my number, my number, don't forget,
is worth one plus three.
Is an EMT.
And now comes the thing.
I'm going to change the mine number and it's going to be equal to 5.8 a decimal number.
And I'm going to print just once my number and then I'm going to see what type of this variable is.
Let's go to run.
5.8 is the content of my number and the type is a float automatically.
When I wrote the content, when I changed the value, it also changed the type of variable it is.
It is now a float variable.
So we're even going to do one more little thing here in the middle after declaring the variable.
Now I'm going to say that my number, I'm going to rewrite it equal to my number, plus my number.
If I print this, we're going to have 11.6 because what is printed out is my number, which in this
instance is worth twice what my number is worth.
It's been overwritten and it has this new value, which is 11.6.
Let's take it a step further, and I'm sure this will interest you.
What if I say that, for example, my number is equal to five plus 5.8?
Then let's not do this count.
Let's leave it at that.
So let's print my number.
What would you expect?
That my number here is an integer or a float.
It has two values in its operation.
So let's see.
Well, it gives us the operation.
10.8, which is five plus 5.8, tells us that it's a float.
Of course, because it doesn't really matter the contents of these operations, but the result of the
operation.
Since the result is a float, it is 10.8.
The data type of my number is a float data type, and let's take another step further to encounter a
problem that will interest you.
We're going to delete all this, and we're going to create a variable called a, for example, and we're
going to give this variable a value through an input.
We're going to ask the user to enter his age.
Tell me your age.
And then what we're going to do is print out the sentence that says your age as we leave the space and
concatenate with age.
This should work.
In fact, the compiler doesn't flag any errors if we run it.
Tell me your age, 34 example and it returns your age is 30 work per.
I could deduce here that I can make operations with the variable age because it has a value of 30 a
number.
So now I can say, for example, that New Age, another variable that I'm going to create is going to
be equal to one plus age.
This, in theory, would have been given 31.
In the case of this example.
And then I'm going to print.
Well, if you're going to be one year older next year, the sentence is going to be you're going to
be we close the quotes and then add New Age, which is the variable containing age plus one.
It should work.
Of course it should.
We printed out.
We put in that your 30 tells me your age is 30.
But then it throws me an arrow when it comes the time to print what you're going to turn.
It tells me that there's some kind of operator here that plus cannot support because plus either does
concatenation with strings or sums with integers.
But if you have integer and string in the same operation, it can't operate.
But you may be saying I have no strings here.
I only have two integers, one and 30, because age is loaded with a number value.
Well, even if it has a value of 30, everything that the user enters through an input is going to be
taken by the system as a string.
So this is a string has the characters three and zero.
It's not a number that we can do operations with.
And I'm going to show you that by removing this bottom part and simply printing the type of eight we
run it.
I give an age of 30 again.
Your age is 30, and it tells me that the variable age has a value that belongs to the class string.
So the data type is not an integer.
This means that I cannot do operations with this number if I want to, for example, to add age twice.
Course we're going to do here.
We're going to print age plus age.
We're going to eliminate the type here.
And it is no longer necessary.
We're going to run to write 30 again.
And it tells me 30, 30, 3030, it didn't do a sum.
It didn't give me an error either.
What it did is a string concatenation.
And then I have a new string that says 3030 because I put age twice.
So if I want to receive user input, this is treated as numbers.
I would have to do some operations that are called conversions between types and we will learn about
that in the next lecture.